---
layout: post
title: Problems With Fighting Games - Intricacy
date: 2022-09-16 14:00:00 -000
categories: ["fighting games","problems"]      # [first,second,third]
tags: [inputs,general]            # [first,second,third]
---
Earlier, I was talking about how fighting games are some of the coolest games out there. However, if that's the case, why aren't they more popular? Despite their appeal, fighting games as a genre have some hurdles that put them at a slight disadvantage compared to "normal" games. However, games today are doing better in making 

## Intricacy
Intricacy is something that many fighting game fans appreciate about the genre, but it unfortunately can make fighting games much harder to approach, and less accessible. If a game is too complex or messy, it could make it hard for random onlookers and first-time viewers to follow the action, causing them to lose interest. If it's taking too long for new players to get good or do something cool, then they're more likely to drop the game and play something they enjoy. I remember a conversation I was having with an assistant at an optometrist appointment. I was wearing a Street Fighter shirt, and he mentioned that he used to play Injustice. However, he doesn't play it anymore because he didn't want to put in the time to do the combos and would rather play games he'd immediately enjoy with what time he had. I might not agree with him, but it's important to recognize his concerns. 

Unfortunately, this is also pretty difficult to balance. Make a game too simple and easy and you'll turn away people that were looking for a challenge, but make it too complex and difficult and casual fans will be less likely to touch the game. There are some approaches that seem to be steps in the right direction, however. Street Fighter 6 announced that it would be implementing "Modern" and "Classic" control schemes, with Modern letting you do certain special moves with a press of a button (with certain less-essential moves unavailable), and Classic keeping the traditional motion inputs. This is actually an incredibly clever way to let newcomers have fun and learn the game sooner while keeping the challenge of grinding and mastery that experienced players seek. Of course, Project L announced a different approach to making these games more accessible, which was simple special inputs. Instead of dp motions or quarter-circle inputs, special moves will be a simple direction and the press of a button. This should also make the game easier for newer players, and it's not like it lowers the difficulty ceiling by much. Players will still need to master combos and timing to truly play at a higher level. Besides, is there really a benefit to making something unnecessarily difficult if something could be done easily for the same effect?