---
layout: post
title: It's All About Interaction, Man
date: 2022-10-08 12:00:00 -000
categories: [interaction,fun]      # [first,second,third]
tags: [smash-bros,yu-gi-oh,legends-of-runeterra,magic-the-gathering]            # [first,second,third]
---
When playing games, the player wants to do cool and fun things, and they want to do them well. In single-player games, this would include things like maintaining speed in movement-focused games or defeating a difficult boss. When you introduce actual players into the equation however, things start to get a bit more complicated. The goals of the two players are now opposing each other; you still want to let each player do cool things, but now you have to keep in mind that it will come at the expense of the player that is also trying to have a good time. 

When you're able to do things to affect another player or the game, it's generally called *interaction*. Interaction doesn't only come into play in just fighting games, but actually a lot of different genres. And, I would say it's a bit more apparent or prevalent in multiplayer/competative games, but I would argue that it's present in single-player games as well (but that's besides the point). 

Growing up, I enjoyed playing 'Yu-Gi-Oh', the trading card game with my friends, but I enjoy it less so now. In modern Yu-Gi-Oh, games can be decided by the initial flip of the coin that decides which player chooses whether to go first or second. A lot of strong decks want to go first so they can set up a powerful board that can stop the opponent from using cards they want, effectively shutting them down and stopping their combos. Personally, I don't enjoy playing Yu-Gi-Oh as I did before, and I attribute this to the fact that I was unable to *interact* with my opponents. 

After playing other card games, specifically "Legends of Runeterra" and "Magic the Gathering", I've found that I enjoy playing these games a lot more. One major difference between these games and Yu-Gi-Oh is that playing cards require a resource, or "Mana" (in both games, funny enough). The amount of mana available grows each turn, meaning that instead of rapid-fast combos that win the game at the start, you play smaller cards at first and gradually build your board, giving each player a chance to *interact* with each other without immediately overpowering the other. Now, I'm not saying that all decks are equal and will have equal chances to interact with each other, but I feel the structure of the mana-based games naturally leads to more interaction, and I enjoy these games more.

The interaction found in fighting games is pretty straightforward. Generally, it's mostly about doing stuff and the other person reacting to it by doing something else. P1 throws a fireball, P2 can block or jump over it, maybe punish P1 if they do it fast enough. P1 throws an attack, P2 can either block it or avoid it and punish them. P1 grabs, P2 can tech the grab or avoid it and punish them. And in generally all of that is pretty fair on both sides, both parties having opportunities to interact with each other. It's important to be able to have checks and balances between the different options available to players; making one option too strong makes it generally difficult to interact with, and that becomes a problem.


Of course, there are certain scenarios that are pretty *unfair*, and 1 party not being able to interact. An obvious example is infinite combos. Generally, they're not found in final builds of the game, but they occasionally sneak their way in, like ["wobbling in Super Smash Bros. Melee"](https://www.ssbwiki.com/Wobbling). It's pretty obvious why infinite combos are bad for interaction-- it turns a game about outplaying your opponent into P1 seeing if they can not mess up something and P2 just kinda watching and hoping for a lucky opening. Very little interaction.
- Also notable: ["Dan's infinite combo in Street Fighter 5"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OxV7LM30GGk)

However, there are cases where it's ok for interaction to be a bit harder (but not *too* hard). For example, in most fighting games, heavy characters are generally slower than the rest of the cast, making it harder for them to break defences with their slow attacks, or getting locked down because it's harder to avoid faster attacks. However, people still play these heavy characters because they usually have special capabilities that make up for the difficutly to get in, either by making it a bit easier to get in or increasing the reward to getting in. They might get unique mechanics like Bowser in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, where light attacks don't make him flinch, or they could also just deal insane damage like Potemkin in Guilty Gear. It'd be a problem if these characters were tremendously weaker with little pay off, so it's important to balance the [risk and reward.](/posts/balance_moves/)

In the end, the best games are ones that maximize their interactability. One thing that video games have over other media is the ability to directly interact with them. To put it simply, games are fun because you get to do cool things in them. Take away the ability to play, and you might as well be watching a movie. 